---
layout: post
title: Project 1 : Benson  
---

The first project we worked on in the Metis Data Science bootcamp was titled Project Benson. In this project, we were given the task of assigning groups to collect e-mail signatures of people interested in women in tech outside of subway stations. In effect, we were to identify the best subway stations. We were told about the MTA turnstile data and briefly brainstormed other possible data sources and then told to go at it in smaller groups. This project was a data exploration, cleaning, and analysis exercise.  
The steps my group took involved collecting MTA turnstile, income by neighborhood, and tech startup concentration by neighborhood data. Our goal was to identify the busiest subway stations in the highest income neighborhood near tech companies. The MTA data was dirtier than expected. Different stations have different ways intial start times for their audits, although typically in 4 hour blocks. There were entries that had clear outliers as well as additional entries inside of random 4 hour blocks. All of that was cleaned and we observed patterns that confirmed a few beliefs we had prior to browsing the data, such as massive amounts of commuters entering the metros around Penn Station and Grand Central in the morning and leaving in the evening or weekend total traffic being lower than weekday.  
Consolidating all that information resulted in a list of recommendations, which can be seen in the [Benson Repository](https://github.com/SJChou88/MTA_Turnstile_Analysis) on GitHub.  All in all, the project was a good introduction to pandas and dealing with very unclean data.  
